# Hello World!

[Elixir](https://elixir-lang.org) is a dynamic, functional programming language for building scalable and maintainable applications. It puts the FUN back into FUNctional programming 😬. This guide will walk you through its basics in less than 20 minutes! Let's get started.

If you want to run the following code yourself, there are three options:

1. Start an IEx REPL with `iex -S mix` and copy and paste the code into the command line.
2. Copy and paste the code into an Elixir script file, like `script.exs`, and run `mix run script.exs`.
3. Simply click the `Run in Livebook` button above to open this file in an interactive notebook.

## Hello World

Here's how you write a `Hello World` script in Elixir.

```elixir
IO.puts("Hello World!")
```

<!-- livebook:{"output":true} -->

```
Hello World!
```

Easy peasy!

We use `IO.puts/1` here because we print a single value. If we want to print a more complex data structure, like a list, we need to use `IO.inspect/1`. It's common to use `IO.inspect/1` over `IO.puts/1`, so we'll use it exclusively from now on.

## Variable assignment

Assigning a value to a variable is super simple in Elixir. You just write `my_var =` and whatever is on the right side of the `=` sign gets assigned to the variable. Here is how to assign all the different basic types to variables:

```elixir
name = "Peter" # String
age = 21 # Integer
age_hex = 0x15 # Integer in hexadecimal
height = 190.47 # Float
adult? = true # Boolean
status = :active # Atom

IO.inspect([name, age, age_hex, height, adult?, status])
```

<!-- livebook:{"output":true} -->

```
["Peter", 21, 21, 190.47, true, :active]
```

Variables are **immutable** but can be reassigned. This means that the memory holding the old value will not be overwritten; instead, new memory is allocated to hold the new value while the old value remains until garbage collected. Even if you modify a variable, it is not updated in place but copied to a new chunk of memory. This might seem wasteful, but it prevents different processes from modifying the same variable.

```elixir
age = 21
age = 30
IO.inspect(age)
```

<!-- livebook:{"output":true} -->

```
30
```

You can ignore assignments by prefixing the variable name with an underscore:

```elixir
_ = 30
_result = 30 + 21
```